---
layout: page
title: "Tasks"
category: party
date: 2014-05-29 19:56:12
order: 3
---

Add new Tasks to Job-Queue
--------------------------

Party exposes a HTTP interface which can be used to interact with the Job Queue.

A task input must be of the following format:
	{
	    'party': <String> Required //Name of the TaskHandler
	    'data': <Dictionary> Optional //Additional Data for Task
	    'timestamp': <datetime object> Optional //Timestamp when this task should be executed, system_now() by default
	}

Since the timestamp field is optional, the default behavior is to queue the Task for immediate execution in the next available slot.

	from simtools.uhttpclient import BlockingHTTPClient

	con = BlockingHTTPClient("/tmp/party.sock") #If listening on a Unix Domain Socket.
	con = BlockingHTTPClient("127.0.0.1:8032") #If listening on a TCP Port.

You can add a new task to the jobQueue using a POST request.

	data = {"tasks": [
	  {
	    "party": "SampleTask",
	    "data": {"arg1": "val1"},
	    "timestamp": datetime.datetime(2014, 03, 11, 05, 12, 22, 86400)
	  },
	]}

	con("/tasks", None, data=data, method="POST")

Tasks accepts a list, so you can add multiple tasks in the same POST request.

	data = {"tasks": [
	  {
	    "party": "SampleTask",
	    "data": {"arg1": "val1"},
	    "timestamp": datetime.datetime(2014, 03, 11, 05, 12, 22, 86400)
	  },
	  {
	    "party": "SampleTask2",
	    "data": {"arg1": "val1"}, //Do not Provide timestamp.
	  },
	  {
	    "party": "SampleTask2",
	    "data": {"arg1": "val1"},
	    "timestamp": datetime.datetime(2014, 03, 11, 05, 12, 22, 86400) //With Timestamp
	  },
	]}

	con("/tasks", None, data=data, method="POST")

The request returns a list of all the tasks that were added to the Queue.

Execute Tasks
-------------

Based on the number of workers available, job scheduler fetches new tasks from the Queue and dispatches them for Execution.

Tasks with a lower timestamp are executed ahead of others. Scheudler is biased towards freshness and success, so if two tasks have the same timestamp one with lower attempts is preferred. When all other paramaters match, One that was creared earlier, is preferred.

Rules

* Task once Completed cannot be reexecuted.
* Task once Deleted, cannot be executed.
* Task cannot be executed after 6 failed attempts.

The execution process is automatic and is handled by a Job scheduler which can be started using a simple command

	python scheduler/

However, for the impatient developer there is a backdoor execution available. A POST request on /task will immediately execute the Task, irrespective of the Queue Status.

Do note that this is a blocking operation and should not be used in Production system as it can block the available processors on Party HTTP interface, which inturn can choke the inflow of tasks.

Sample Usage:

	con("/task/{TASK_ID}", None, method="POST")

    #NOTE: If you run into an AssertionError in newer Python builds use

    con("/task/{TASK_ID}", None, method="POST", data={})

